%Draft emails for me to cut and paste
From: Chris Carroll <ccarrol2@jh.edu>
To: recipient@place.dom
Cc: 
Subject: The IMF should hire Will Du!.
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="utf-8"
MIME-Version: 1.0

Dear [firstname],

I'm reaching out to you on behalf of [Will Du](https://www.william-du.com), who is on the market and is interviewing with a panel at the IMF for the Economist Program , because you're someone who might be particularly interested in what Will is doing.

Will's [job market paper](https://github.com/wdu9/JMP/blob/main/JMPDraft.pdf) shows that unemployment scarring ---the well documented micro fact that job loss leads to a permanent decline in wages--- is a key determinant of the speed of macroeconomic recovery following recessions. To be specific, Will demonstrates that these scars capture *both* the shift in the trend of economic growth following the Great Recession and the unaltered trend of economic growth following the pandemic -- because the micro literature finds that temporary layoffs (as in the pandemic) do not leave scars, but permanent layoffs (as in the great Recession) do.  More interestingly, combining this finding with the recent work of [Gertler et al. (2022)](https://www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/w30134/w30134.pdf) would suggests that the [*Paycheck Protection Program*](https://www.sba.gov/funding-programs/loans/covid-19-relief-options/paycheck-protection-programz) supported the swift post-pandemic recovery by encouraging firms to opt for temporary rather than permanent layoffs, thereby mitigating the macroeconomic effects of unemployment scarring.  Finally, Will's job market paper demonstrates that these scars significantly weaken the effectiveness of fiscal austerity—whether through reduced government transfers or higher taxes—in stabilizing the debt-to-GDP ratio. Furthermore, fiscal austerity exacerbates income inequality in the long term, as scarring permanently increases wage dispersion.
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%COMMENT
% I am using the words "trend of economic growth" because the CBO website highlights that the Macroeconomic Analysis Division "studies various macroeconomic factors and relationships, such as ... , trends in productivity growth" 
% I don't conduct a Paycheck Protection Program(PPP) counterfactual in which I show the latter. I am just trying to say that combining Gertler et al (2022)'s result and my quantitative result that temporary layoffs were a key factor in determining why the recovery returned to pre-2020 trend *suggests* that fiscal policy( the PPP) likely prevented scarring. I plan to write a new paper where I embed Gertler et al (2022)'s search and matching micro foundations into my HANK and SAM to quantitatively assess the extent the PPP reduced scarring. I also mention this point in the FRB email. It is much more pertinent there. I explain why in the FRB email.
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
Will possesses expertise in building and solving general equilibrium heterogeneous agent macroeconomic models that incorporate realistic micro-level consumption behavior. This expertise could provide significant value to the IMF by enabling precise quantification of fiscal stimulus impacts. For instance, as my co-author in [*Welfare and Spending Effects of Consumption Stimulus Policies*](https://github.com/llorracc/HAFiscal/blob/master/HAFiscal.pdf), Will developed a HANK model with search and matching frictions to calculate multipliers for unemployment insurance extensions, stimulus checks, and tax cuts.

As further evidence of Will's ability, Will has contributed extensively to [HARK](https://docs.econ-ark.org/Documentation/overview/introduction.html), a toolkit for modeling economic decision-making by heterogeneous agents. He has authored a [notebook](https://github.com/econ-ark/HARK/blob/master/examples/ConsNewKeynesianModel/SSJ_example.ipynb) showcasing how HARK integrates with the [Sequence Space Jacobian toolkit](https://github.com/shade-econ/sequence-jacobian) to solve a HANK model. In fact, this work illustrates how deficit-financed government spending generates significantly larger stimulative effects in a HANK framework compared to TANK or RANK models.

Will employed his technical aptitude for solving HANK models during his internship at the Bank of England to build a HANK model with housing as a discrete choice to quantify the housing wealth channel of monetary policy in the UK ([slides with code](https://github.com/wdu9/HANK_Housing_Block/blob/main/HANK_Housing_Slides%20slides.pdf)). These skills are very general purpose; but structural intertemporal modelling is taking over in many fields and the skills Will has developed are eminently transferrable. For example, an immediate application of the work he's done on housing would be the development a macro model that evaluates how monetary policy is transmitted through the housing market, especially since housing models that can capture the distributional consequences of monetary policy are rare.

Overall, Will's expertise in constructing general equilibrium models to evaluate the effectiveness of fiscal policies makes him a strong candidate for the IMF. His advanced computational skills, developed through integrating microeconomic evidence into these models, enable him to analyze the impact of a wide range of fiscal policies. Notably, he is well-equipped to assess the macroeconomic implications of targeted fiscal policies, such as increasing taxes on households in the highest tax bracket, implementing a wealth tax on those holding the largest share of wealth, or stimulus checks to households in a particular income bracket.
